*Originally written 2014 08 09*
*Edited to be re-posted 2022 01 27*

_ It was a dark and stormy night when a band of raiders were driving a pair if skiffs down a cliffside road. With a rock wall on one side and a sheer drop on the other, the path was quite precarious.  The raiders themselves where canine/human chimera, designed for military work and put to use by a criminal syndicate. Each was alert and cautious, they knew how treacherous the environment was and how important it was to deliver the cargo they just stole. The worst was behind them though, right? Surely a mere cliff road would pose no threat after the ordeals they went through earlier that day.

_ Venenia was a succubus shadowdancer, and she had been following these raiders for a week now. Finally, she decided the moment was right to attack. She fired arrows from her longbow into shadows which found their targets from every angle. Men became pincushions in an instant. Immediately after, the skiffs began to veer, one crashing into the rock wall, the other falling off the cliff. most of the chimera were already dead, the others wounded beyond saving. One in particular attempted to crawl away when Venenia decided to have a little fun before he died.

_ It was nearly dawn by the time the demon was done ... playing with the poor canine bastard. The chimera had died somewhere along the way, as did the storm, Venenia just didn't notice. Maybe she didn't care. Pleased with the outcome of the night's venture, she surveyed the area for anything of interest. A skiff lie in a broken heap, bodies of chimera all around, the cargo she killed them over scattered and broken. Venenia was about to leave disappointed when she spied one crate still intact, which she took with her back to her lair.

_ It was more of a castle than a lair. Once a proud fortress, now a ruin. The demon just called it home. All the needed amenities were there, from running water to a massive vhs collection. Getting solar panels rigged up in this place was no small feat either.

_ Venenia plopped on a couch, holding the crate greedily like a child on christmas day. Inside the crate was an egg. The demon knew it was an egg, despite it being a perfect sphere and metallic, although she didn't know why her mind insisted on that explanation.  So she did the only reasonable thing a demon could do in such a situation. Right there, between the couch and the tv, she drew up an excessively elaborate blood ritual to bring out the life within the egg. Despite being unnecessary (really, just the attention she was giving it would have been enough, she didn't have do a whole ritual), the display was quite impressive. The egg cracked, and from it came the most adorable little creature Venenia's demonic eyes ever did see.

_ It was a chimera, part human part feline, and it was female. Her fur, already grown, was a goldish orange with black splotches, it dried quickly in the cold air. The demon, not accustomed to being exposed to such cuteness turned the irresistible creature around to face the tv, distracting it, so she could escape and plan what she would do with the ball of fluff. Many ideas floated around her head, but she needed time to sort through them all. She danced the shadows around the castle while contemplating her options, and a couple hours later she found herself back where she started without having come to any kind of conclusion. Then, she saw the remarkable. The tv was left on, showing martial arts videos that Venenia liked to leave going as background noise, and the baby chimera was already making feeble attempts to mimic what she saw on the screen. Suddenly, everything clicked together in the demon's mind. She would make the young feline into the ultimate side-kick.

_ Years passed, and the chimera grew rapidly, absorbing all information presented to her. At first, it was just martial arts and weapons training, then the girl learned to change the tape on her own. Suddenly a myriad of subjects were available to her, ranging from history to music, dance to culinary arts, with bits of science and magic sprinkled in for good measure. Somewhere along the way she came up with a name for herself, noticing that everyone else had names. Neilah. Yes, that would be her name.

_ Venenia was a harsh mother, always demanding excellence, and disciplining her adoptive daughter for every misstep. Neilah learned to be rebellious in kind, so there was always something for the demon to consider lacking. Despite the conflict between them, they were family whether they liked it or not. They loved each other as a mother and daughter would, in their own strange, demented and dysfunctional way. Venenia, sinister but not unreasonable. Neilah, mischievous but kind hearted. Family.

_ Neilah was eighteen when Venenia decided that it was time to begin taking the chimera out on missions. The girl commonly wandered the forests practicing what she learned from the tapes while the demon was away on some quest or another. She fashioned for herself clothing made of deerskin, a chestplate from the bones of her kills, even a few different bows as she decided what kind of weight she liked behind it. There was no surprise to Neilah when Venenia told the girl to come along, she had only wondered when it would actually happen.

_ Over the centuries, Venenia had gathered quite the collection of weapons and armor. Much of it was trophies from enemies she had killed, others were rewards for the innumerable quests she had completed. A few pieces of legendary gear  was scattered here and there, artifacts galore adorned the walls. Venenia instructed Neilah that she could take one thing for this quest. The chimera, looking about with eyes all aglow, finally decided upon a special bow that had a fancy glove hanging with it. Any other equipment Neilah wanted would have to come from what she already had.