# History of Erewhon: Imperial Soulcubes

Originally posted October 22nd, 2015.

_ To understand the nature of the soulcubes, one must first understand the nature of those who created them. In the Empire of Phobos, the souls of the dead are harvested to serve the needs of the living. This, along with other methods of gathering soul essence, is what powers Imperial industry and infrastructure. Despite their ghastly nature, these soulcubes act as little more than rechargeable energy storage devices.

_ While the why is quite mundane, the how is anything but. Every soulcube is constructed around a soulstone, which acts as the storage component of the cubes. The particulars are beyond the scope of this document, but sophisticated alchemical mechanics are constructed around the soulgem, which causes ambient energies to be funneled inside to be absorbed by the soulgem. Different alchemical mechanics can be applied to siphon the energy back out.

_ But where does all the soul essence come from? Battlefields are a good source, but conquering for the sake of conquering is simply not economically viable. The answer is the Arena. Every major city has at least one, and champions the worlds over gather to fight over the prize money and the fame. Even if the combatants don’t die, excess soul energy can be harvested, created from the conflict itself and amplified by the eagerness of the crowds. The greater the power of the combatants, the more power they create to be taken away.

_ On that note, the greatest combatants of all are so powerful, that they produce enough soul energy to power a medium-size city for a year from just one fight, no deaths needed. Problem is that they only produce that much power when they fight with all they’ve got. The only reliable way to make that happen is if they fear losing more than they fear dying. Any who are worth keeping can be brought back from the dead if they’re worth the effort. So a roster of the greatest warriors the worlds have ever seen was assembled, and they fight daily in the Empire’s capitol city. Winning a fight grants a combatant his heart’s desire for a day. Losing results in the worst torture imaginable (which also produces soul essence that can be collected and used).

_ Every mage who has studied enchanting would be asking the same question at this point: Why so much power? Where is it going? Why do they need it? Even the weakest of mortal souls is enough to create very powerful enchantments. Why does the Empire need so much power? The answer is a simple one, but is a question itself with a complex answer: What does it take for a man to become a god?

_ If a mage who has studied runes where to take a look at a map of the Empire and his territories, he would see an intricate rune map that brings all the unused power to a single focal point: the Emperor’s palace. It is known that blood can be applied to casting circles to magnify the effects of the spell, but whoever said that the blood had to be outside living bodies? If the casting circle is large enough, a city’s streets can form the lines, with living blood constantly flowing through it. This casting circle, this rune map, is the size of a continent and spans a thousand planes of existence. And of course, any souls who die are still made use of.